
Leo,

I paste below the project (s) description. Please ACK if you receive it.


 Building 3D models of urban areas is one of the hot topics right now  
at both the industrial and the scientific level. The range of  
applications of these 3D models run from a simple google-map approach  
for visualization, to forensic investigation where 3D models are used  
for analysis of the crime scene. The approach to building such 3D  
models can be categorized in 3 areas: classical approach, high tech  
approach and scientific (or elegant) approach.

 The classical approach covers techniques based on laser scanners,  
active stereo vision (where markers are used or a pattern is projected  
into the scene). The high-tech approach is what the industry is using.  
Companies such as Google or Cyclomedia spend thousands of dollars in  
fancy equipment to obtain a set of geolocalized images. Later, a set  
of highly skilled modelers manually build the 3D model. The elegant  
approach is however more scientific. The goal is to use state of the  
art mathematical methods to build a 3D model from a simple set of  
images. In this scenario no expensive equipment is required (dGPS,  
laser, scanners, IMU, etc). With something as simple as a pocket  
camera a 3D model can be built. These models however lack some  
information regarding the ground for instance and typically consist of  
planes or surfaces.

The goal of this MSc project is to improve the 3D models by exploring  
the visual information. Images are usually the source of the 3D model,  
though GIS data can be used instead. In this project we aim at  
improving the 3D models by exploiting the great deal of information  
contained in the images that depict a city (either ground level or  
aerial images). Some of the topics that will be covered include:


\begin{itemize}
\item Bulding outline detection, for instance using sky detection,  
shape reprojection, etc. This will help improve the 3D model by  
understanding what part of the 3D model is actually the building.
\item Door and window detection. Using machine learning techniques we  
could detect doors and windows and transfer this information to the 3D  
model.
\item Foreground-background. One important issue when "texturing" the  
3D model is the fact that trees, cars or people need to be accounted  
for. By detecting what is part of the background (the building) and  
the foreground (the objects) we can better compute the texture of the  
building.
\item More advanced image-object detection could also be used to  
understand what part of the 3D model belongs to trees, cars, or people.
\end{itemize}

The ultimate goal is to improve the details of rough 3D models  
obtained by either single cameras or GIS data by extracting  
information from the image space.

This project will be part of a larger picture project together with  
another MSc student and I, and in conjunction with EPFL.

